Churchill thrives upon a multi-million
dollar tourist industry it's taken time
to find a way for people and polar bears
to co-exist but the rewards are highly
profitable
the bear spend the winter out on the
frozen sea hunting seals but in summer
they're forced to shore where there's
little to eat a starving bears migrate
to Churchill to wait for the ice to
return in November living beside a giant
killer takes some getting used to as
taxi driver Paula cook knows well when
we moved here they told us if you're
ever out and you hear something or you
think there's a bear run you go to the
nearest house and bang on their doors so
that's so that they'll let you in but
you know you get used to it
you live with the Bears after all you're
in their territory you know what I mean
like this is their land so I have a
great respect for them 20 years ago
attitudes were different
hardly anything was known about polar
bears then certainly not how to live
amongst them the Bears had the run of
the place their natural curiosity and
excellent sense of smell led them to
wherever there was food and no place had
more food than the town dump as many as
50 bears were seen here in a single day
as they adapted themselves to this
man-made environment it was only a
matter of time before many lost their
natural fear of people they became a
real threat even in town they became
increasingly bold and aggressive the
Bears were seen as giant pests to be
destroyed on site the town killed as
many as 40 bears each year
Churchill's residents are more bear
aware these days by cleaning up the dump
and designating no-go areas around the
edges of the town for both people and
bears they've managed to control the
situation
you